History
Originally dogs were actually wolves. Dogs originated in central Asia and have been companions to humans as far back as 13,000 BC. Wolves were run off of camps until people 
realized that it was cleaner to have them around because they ate garbage and rats. Later people also realized that they would bark as an alarm when something was
approaching. 
These early wolves were hungry and realized that it was easy to scavenge food off of people. The nicest and most docile wolves became smarter and had pups that were
more and more smart and docile. Eventually these wolves were no longer considered wolves and became what we now know of today as dogs. 
Breeding
Today dogs all come in different shapes and sizes, and have different purposes. This is because people breed dogs to be that way. How this works is that if someone wanted a
taller dog they would breed the two tallest dogs. If they wanted a small dog that would breed the smallest together. If they wanted a good hunting dog they would breed a pair of
dogs that were the best at smelling and tracking. 
Breeds
Worldwide there is around 340 different dog breeds. That means that 340 different types of dogs all came from the same ancestors, the wolves. From the largest to the smallest
dogs, they all have wolves as their oldest ancestors
Habitat and Diet
Currently dog’s habitats are human homes and yards. This can range from apartments to ranches and farms, anywhere that a human lives.
A dog’s diet consists of scraps they find, animals they may catch, and mainly processed food given to them by their owners. Dogs were carnivorous but domestic dogs are 
omnivorous eating grains, vegetable, and meats.
Lifecycle
Puppy-A puppy is born and needs to be with its mother for a full 8 weeks. The puppy stage ends at 6 to 18 months.
Adolescence- At 6 to 18 months the puppy begins to start adolescence where hormones begin to kick in and it reaches its adult size
Adult Dog- Dogs reach adulthood between 1 and 3 years old. They are less energetic but should be well trained at this point.
Senior- Dogs reach old age between 6 and 10 years, normally their muzzle with turn gray, and they will be more tired and calm